## smali patches

Certain things are too difficult to patch via hooking, and this has become necessary in order to continue backporting features from RNA.

These patches are organized in a way that

1. Each patch can only be applied to ONE class
2. Each patch is based on the output of configured [`google/smali@3.0.7`](https://github.com/google/smali). **APKTOOL WILL NOT WORK.**
3. Each patch's path is the the qualified class name + `.patch`, relative from `src/`
    - For example, patching the class `com.discord.BuildConfig` would have a patch at `src/com/discord/BuildConfig.patch`. The before/after file name
      header in the patch <ins>does not matter</ins>.
4. Each patch is a unified diff generated by the `diff` util (not git).

These patches are then bundled and published to be downloaded by the [Aliucord Manager](https://github.com/Aliucord/Manager) which applies them before
installing Aliucord.

## Tooling

1. Ensure you have the `diff` and `patch` utilities installed

[//]: # (@formatter:off)
> [!NOTE]
> On Windows, you can obtain `diff` and `patch` by either:
> - Installing the [GnuWin32](https://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/) project
> - Installing [Git](https://git-scm.com/install/) with Git Bash, and then specifying the paths to the `diff`
>   and `patch` binaries on your system by setting the `diff.bin` and `patch.bin` variables in the `local.properties`
>   of this project. For example:
>   ```properties
>   # local.properties
>
>   patch.bin=C\:\\Program Files\\Git\\usr\\bin\\patch.exe
>   diff.bin=C\:\\Program Files\\Git\\usr\\bin\\diff.exe
>   ```
[//]: # (@formatter:on)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> `diff`/`patch` from StrawberryPerl have bugs that cause weird errors when running the `applyPatches` and `writePatches` tasks.
> If StrawberryPerl is the default on the `PATH`, then set the `patch.bin` and `diff.bin` variables in `local.properties` to the respective
> paths of `diff`/`patch` binaries of a different installation.

2. Run the `:patches:disassembleWithPatches` task in order to disassemble and apply any existing patches in `./src`
3. Perform any additional modifications necessary to the `./smali` directory
4. Run the `:patches:writePatches` task in order to generate and write the patches back to `./src`
5. Run the `:patches:testPatches` task in order to check that the `./smali` dir still successfully reassembles.
   Note that this will only reassemble smali files with patches existing for them,
   which is why running `:patches:writePatches` beforehand is necessary. This will not test whether your patches
   work, only that it reassembles correctly.
6. Connect your device installed with Aliucord Manager, and run the `:patches:deployWithAdb` task. Continue with the
   Aliucord installation, and once patching/installation finishes, ensure your patches function correctly.
7. Update the patches version in `build.gradle.kts` if necessary
8. Commit changes to git

> [!NOTE]
> If you encounter any errors while running the tasks listed above, please rerun them with the `--info` Gradle
> flag to display more hidden output, including any stdout that was returned from `patch`/`diff`!

> [!NOTE]
> Any changes made to the patches in `./src` after having run `:patches:disassembleWithPatches` will be discarded
> upon running the `:patches:writePatches` task to generate *new* patches! Patches should not directly be modified,
> but instead the smali file they are patching!
